[Music]
hey hey good to see you now here's
something that you want how to stop
grinding your teeth at night have you
ever wondered why you wake up with a
sore jaw or a headache every morning the
chances are that both are connected to
the act of you grinding your teeth while
you're sleeping well this has to stop
right now this condition also known as
bruxism has recently been linked to
another unpleasant condition sleep apnea
this is when your throat muscles relaxed
during the night and block your airway
which then interrupts your breathing
just as with snoring you can't control
the act of grinding your teeth during
sleep because you're unconscious and
unaware that you're doing it at
Brightside we love jaw-dropping ideas
but not job breaking ones that's why we
want to explain seven things that can
help you prevent bruxism so that you can
enjoy sound sleep and healthier teeth
before we get started hit the subscribe
button and turn on that little
notification valve now you won't miss
any of the important updates coming
daily from the bright side of life all
right let's start by explaining what
causes bruxism it seems unfair that a
nasty habit like grinding your teeth as
a pretty name bruxism is a pair of
functional activity of our teeth which
means that it's not what they are
actually supposed to do yet a lot of
people between eight and thirty one
percent of the general population suffer
from it there are two types of bruxism
nocturnal or sleep which happens during
the night and awake which goes on during
the day the reasons why a person has
bruxism can vary and include
psychological and genetic factors a
slightly off position of the upper teeth
in relation to the lower teeth and
certain drugs
speaking of negative repercussions there
are plenty of them
your teeth can become more sensitive and
start to wear your jaw muscles may ache
and you can also suffer from headaches
now according to several studies bruxism
is also a symptom of sleep apnea
more specifically obstructive sleep
apnea this is a serious sleep disorder
where the muscles at the back of your
throat relax when this happens the
airway narrows or closes as you breathe
in this may result in snorting gasping
or choking all of which can deprive you
of restful sleep this is why treating
bruxism is highly recommended now here
are some tips to stop that nighttime
teeth grinding number one avoid caffeine
and alcohol a very simple measure you
can take is fixing your diet what we eat
and drink greatly affects all aspects of
our well-being and our teeth are no
exception caffeine is a well known
stimulant that we all turn to when
necessary but you should try to cut back
on coffee coke and energy drinks as they
contain very high amounts of caffeine if
you drink them off it you can get too
agitated and active during the day
making it much harder for you to relax
and unwind when it's bedtime the same
goes for alcohol yeah you need to take
it easy at happy hour and with the night
caps you have before you go to bed
alcohol causes a different bodily
reaction to caffeine it can speed up the
time it takes you to fall asleep but
it's also likely to make your sleep more
restless and shallow as a result teeth
grinding will only get worse according
to a study published in the Journal of
the American Dental Association quote
drinking alcohol can make you almost
twice as likely to grind your teeth in
quote number two reduce stress levels in
your life
just chill baby stress is a common cause
of bruxism it mentioned nervous during
the day and restless at night he should
first analyze the source of stress in
your life is it from your family or
friends are you stressed because of
school or work did something stressful
happen to you recently D caused
sleepless nights and anxiety your next
step is to come up with an effective
plan for getting rid of those stress
factors we're all fond of different
stress relieving activities but here are
the three solutions we highly recommend
that we'll definitely make a change
counselling exercising and meditating
you can also fit your schedule and try
to go to bed and wake up at the same
time every day
number three stop chewing things that
are not food this is a habit many of us
had during childhood yet some adults
still do it in their grown-up lives
while chewing on a pencil or a pen in
the sexy way we see in the movies is
generally appealing it will cause you a
lot of health problems in real life
chewing any non-food item brings more
bacteria into your mouth and messes with
your normal mouth activity this habit is
directly linked to grinding your teeth
and uncontrollable chewing is a result
of stress if you can't stop chewing
different things when not eating try
tricking your brain by making a change
swap writing utensils for chewing gum
mints or a small healthy snack pick pens
that aren't easy to chew like metal
pants or go to extreme by coating it
with nail polish which tastes disgusting
so they tell me
number four include calcium and
magnesium in your diet so we've covered
swapping pens and pencils for gum but
grinding your teeth can also mean that
you lack certain supplements visit your
doctor to run some tests and see if
that's the case don't self prescribe
vitamins or supplements if your calcium
and magnesium levels are too low start
taking supplements
these elements are important for muscle
function and nervous system health if
you suffer from shin cramps during the
night these supplements will help in
addition to calcium and magnesium you
should opt for a healthy and balanced
diet fast-food sodas and lots of sweets
cause tooth decay raw fruits vegetables
nuts and berries are all good for you
and your teeth you can also add cheese
yogurt whole grains and sweet potatoes
to your diet for healthier and stronger
teeth and gums number 5 pay attention to
clenching so here's a tip pay attention
to how your jaw and teeth behave during
the day sooner rather than later you'll
notice that they're living a life of
their own this is known as a wake
bruxism unconscious clenching often
happens when you're thinking too hard or
are very deeply involved in an activity
according to a study from the Department
of Neurology at the Medical University
of Innsbruck jaw clenching is also a
response to stress and anxiety you may
not notice it but your jaw is tense and
your teeth are gritted at moments like
these relax your jaw put your teeth in a
rest position with a tiny space between
them and move the lower jaw from left to
right to work it out
number six relax properly before bad if
nighttime bruxism is your thing then
your first task is to unwind before
going to sleep the calmer and more
relaxed you are the better the chance
that you'll sleep soundly without
grinding your teeth just like with
distressing different things work for
different people try drinking soothing
herbal tea before bed like chamomile you
can also try massaging your neck
shoulders and face that will help your
mind and body relax for sure this also
means that you must put your smartphones
away at bedtime
it can also help to adjust your bedroom
candy
by switching off the lights before going
to sleep
number seven get a mouthguard it's like
a bodyguard for your mouth now if you're
feeling like you're not coping too well
with your teeth grinding go and see a
specialist if you visit a dentist on a
regular basis they'll notice changes in
your teeth and can suggest which
measures you should take most likely a
dentist will recommend getting a mouth
guard to wear at night to prevent your
teeth from grinding and causing further
damage there are two options buy a
ready-made guard at a pharmacy or get a
custom-made one of course the second
variant is much better because everyone
has a different jaws structure in mouth
shape a custom-made silicone mouth guard
will fit you perfectly and make sleeping
with it a bit easier however it might be
hard to get accustomed to it at first
its price is much higher but it will
serve you for about one to
one-and-a-half years unlike your hair
your teeth won't grow back if anything
happens to them that's why you should
take oral care seriously from the start
we hope this video will make you more
aware of how to handle any teeth
grinding problems so are you a teeth
grinder how do you cope share in the
comments how you realized you had the
problem and how you're dealing with it
also don't forget to click the like
button and share this with your family
and friends always stay tuned to our
Channel and join us on the bright side
of life
[Music]